# EMR Deployment Scripts #

This subdirectory provides the necessary means to start an EMR cluster on
Amazon's computing infrastructure which provides Geotrellis capabilities.  For
the moment, this implies making binary capabilities available for use with
`spark-shell` or `spark-submit`.  The future should bring more capability.

## Cluster Configuration and Management ##

Cluster management here is provided through a Makefile and a collection of
supporting files.  Proper setup of this cluster may require tweaks to any of
the support files and/or environment variables.  We describe the likely points
of configuration, followed by the make targets that are used to work with the
cluster.

### Configuration Files ###

#### `config-aws.mk` ####

`EC2_KEY`: Supply the name of the key pair you wish to use.  This implies that
whichever name you provide corresponds to a PEM file in the user's home
directory named `${EC2_KEY}.pem`.

`SUBNET_ID`: Ensures that all nodes are launched in a consistent network
domain.  Possible values for this variable can be found in the VPC subnets
panel from the AWS EMR console.

#### `config-emr.mk` ####

`NAME`: The display name that will be seen in the Clusters panel of the EMR
console.

`SECURITY_GROUP`: Used for the purposes of network security management.  The
named security group must already exist and be configured with the appropriate
ingress/egress rules for the current application.

`MASTER_INSTANCE` and `WORKER_INSTANCE`: The type of instances to use for each
node type.  (E.g., `m3.large`.)

`WORKER_COUNT`: Number of worker nodes to provision.

`USE_SPOT`, `MASTER_PRICE`, and `WORKER_PRICE`: If `USE_SPOT` is true,
provision nodes on the spot market, with bid prices given in the
`MASTER_PRICE` and `WORKER_PRICE` vars.  The maximum bid price should be set
according to node type and region.

#### `config-run.mk` ####

`S3_URI`: An S3 URI (of the form `s3://bucket/prefix/path`) that will store
files relevant to the operation of the cluster.  In this folder, there must
exist an `rpms` subtree that contains RPM resources needed to bootstrap the
cluster (see `RPMS_VERSION` below), and files will be placed in the `scripts`
subfolder to facilitate cluster startup.

`RPMS_VERSION`: Identifies the version of the RPM and .whl repository to use
during cluster bootstrapping.  This implies that the
`s3://${S3_URI}/rpms/${RPMS_VERSION}` subfolder exists and is populated by the
necessary resources.  See
[here](https://github.com/geodocker/geodocker-jupyter-geopyspark/tree/master/rpms/build)
for more information on how to generate these resources.

`S3_ACCESS_KEY` and `S3_SECRET_KEY`: Credentials for S3 access (required by s3contents Jupyter plugin)

`S3_NOTEBOOK_BUCKET` and `S3_NOTEBOOK_PREFIX`: The location on S3 where Jupyter notebooks will
be found/stored.  The bucket must exist prior to startup, but the prefix does
not.  If the prefix exists, any files contained therein will be available to
the Jupyter instance after login.

#### `cluster-configurations.json` ####

Provides configurations to the applications provided by the EMR cluster
(Spark, YARN, Zeppelin, etc.).  See
[here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/emr/latest/ReleaseGuide/emr-configure-apps.html)
for more details.

### Environment Variables ###

`CLUSTER_ID`: If you are working with multiple clusters, you may need to
specify the cluster ID for the target cluster, or the last created cluster
will be the default target.

### Make Targets ###

#### `make create-cluster` ####

This make target sets up an EMR cluster according to the configurations given above.

#### `make terminate-cluster` ####

Shuts down the running cluster.

#### `make ssh` ####

Opens an `ssh` connection to the cluster's master node.

#### `make proxy` ####

Opens an `ssh` tunnel to the cluster for use with Foxy Proxy to allow access
to the YARN Resource Manager, Spark History server, Ganglia, and any other
remote apps running on the cluster.
